awesome hey guys i'm jay from e2
language i've got an interesting story
to tell you
well I'll tell you it in a second
actually what we're going to do in this
live class is look at IELTS writing task
2 but instead of writing a laborious
essay which you should do by the way in
which you can do by looking at the other
videos that we've produced I'm gonna
give you some tips for scoring 8 plus
okay let me tell you that little story
I'm gonna admit this to you and it's
kind of difficult for me to admit this
because I'm an English teacher and I'm a
native English speaker and I'm very very
good at linguistics and writing and bla
bla bla bla bla
I got stuck on 7.5 for writing three
times in the IELTS I've taken the IELTS
four times now I've gotten nines on
reading listening and speaking no
problem right reading listening speaking
9 - cool cool bananas easy peasy
writing however holy moly 3 times I got
stuck on 7.5 right but I can proudly
tell you that in the last test I took I
got 8.5 which is good it's not perfect
it's not 9 maybe I'll send it back and
see if they'll up it to 9 but there's a
reason why I got stuck and there's a
reason why so many people get stuck on
6.5 7.5 and they can't cross that 8th
barrier and I think I know the reason
why and I I employed some different
techniques in the final its final tests
that I took I changed the way that I
wrote my essays and I believe that that
increased my score and there's good
reason for that so let's have a look at
that in this class so these ghastly
looking things are what the examiners
look at when they're marking your essay
there are four of them right task
achievement coherence cohesion lexing
what the I don't these are crazy words
basically these four things are as such
task achievement means you answer the
question coherence and cohesion means
you structure your essay
in your paragraphs while even within the
paragraphs themselves lexical resource
means vocabulary there are tips and
tricks for each of these and the final
one is grammatical range and accuracy
not just accuracy grammatical range and
accuracy we'll get to that one what
we're going to do in this live class is
look at how to get a top score for task
achievement which is this criterion here
and I'll show you how to boost it up to
an eight plus but you'll have to wait
for the other lessons which will happen
next week for coherence and cohesion
vocabulary and grammar bits so tonight
just task achievement let me show you
what you need to do to maximize your
score on this one so there are four
things related to task achievement that
you need to do to boost your score first
one it sounds very simple but in fact
it's not it is answer the question you
need to answer the question that they
ask you a lot of people don't there's a
number of reasons why they don't I'm
going to show you what happens and why
they go off track tasks achievements all
about staying on track number two in
your essay you need to make your
position or your opinion clear as mud
okay I'm going to show you how to do
that number three in it's all about
structures you need to use the e to
language introduction the e to language
paragraphs which I'll show you as well
and the e to conclusion structures these
are extremely important the fourth thing
is of course and this relates to task
achievement you need to write more than
250 words and we'll have a quick look at
that
but let's firstly look at how you should
need to answer the question I'm going to
give you 30 seconds to read this
question prompt which you might get on
test day ready imagine you and you're
opening your test booklet and this is
what you see
you
all right ah just before we continue
masterpiece on YouTube live says J if
you got stuck on seven point five three
times then what hope do I have I'm stuck
at seven point five twice already third
time lucky perhaps it's not luck
it really isn't luck there's a method
there are certain strategies you need to
employ so let's keep looking at this
okay so we just read this question
prompt that said considering that adults
spend much of their lives at work having
job satisfaction is extremely important
what factors contribute to job
satisfaction how realistic is the
expectation of job satisfaction for all
employees okay what I want you to do in
a second when I get my slides right okay
let's just do it what I want you to do
here there's the question at the top
it's the same question I want you to
read this introduction okay I want you
to read let me just show you where I
want you to read this it's beautifully
written I want you to give it a score
from 0 to 9 for task achievement is it a
4 isn't a 6 an 8 isn't even a 9 ok read
this and think about whether it answers
the question ok I'll give you one I'll
give you 30 seconds to read it starting
now
this particular introduction let's say
this introduction was continued
throughout the rest of the essay would
get no more than a four out of nine it's
right off topic it's beautifully written
the grammar is perfect the vocabulary is
excellent but it is off topic completely
why well let's take a look the question
said what factors contribute to job
satisfaction and this said this essay
will discuss the advantages of having a
good of having good job satisfaction how
realistic is the expectation of job
satisfaction for all employees this says
this essay will discuss the
disadvantages of having an honest it's
not on topic IELTS examiner's ba-bang
you've just if this were a video game
you've just died in the video game right
that's not what you want to do you want
to make sure that you read that question
prompt and you answer that question it's
perfectly okay answer the question I
know that sounds crazy answer the
question what happens is you're
preparing for your IELTS and you write
and advantages/disadvantages essay the
night before right and that's good
because that's printed that in your
brain and then on test day you get there
and you open the booklet and ask you
something completely different and
you're scared you're nervous and you
think ah I'll just write what I wrote
last night or what I saw on Jays YouTube
video Jay's YouTube videos a damn good
but you've got to be so flexible on test
day and just answer the question okay
that's it I won't drill it anymore you
get the point I want you to read this
introduction and give it a score from
zero to nine this time we have a timer
you
what score would you give this from zero
to nine not for grammar not for
vocabulary but for staying on track for
answering the question
read it carefully
and the answer is you probably guess
that this one was much more improved
this would get whoopsy this would get an
eight or a nine for task achievement
let's go back and see why one of the
questions said or asked what factors
contribute to job satisfaction let's
look at that third sentence of the
introduction this essay will discuss the
two main contributors to an enjoyable
job okay that is directly going to
answer that question they're awesome
what about the second question how
realistic is the expectation of job
satisfaction for all employees
well this essay will discuss bla bla bla
bla bla this essay will argue that few
employees will truly have such factors
in their working lives so it's going to
answer both questions it's right on the
money
okay so again you're going to get an
eight point nine eight or nine rather if
you stay on track okay we've just looked
at task achievement and how to answer
the question of course it's complicated
there are it's more complicated than
that you have to stay on track
throughout the entire essay not just in
your in your introduction but in your
paragraphs and in your conclusion you
have to answer the question all the way
through the problem is there are a
number of different IELTS essay question
types
in fact I've seen seven or eight
different types
I won't reel them off the top of my head
but in our YouTube videos up here you
can do them all okay so if you're
curious and I think you should practice
them all if it's very important to
practice them all and if you want to get
some feedback on your writing go to e to
language comm the link will be in the
description below sign up to one of our
packages get some feedback on your
writing written feedback or take a
one-on-one tutorial with one of our
expert teachers we can certainly help
you out okay so we've looked at how to
answer the question let's look at the
second key to task achievement which is
making your position or opinion clear
throughout
so this is an example si let's say it's
an opinion si okay let's say it's asking
whether you think smoking is a good idea
or a bad idea just to make it simple
let's say you're gonna argue that
smoking is a bad idea which is probably
the easiest way to argue so in your
introduction you're going to say that
smoking is a bad idea first paragraph
you're going to give a reason an example
why smoking is a bad idea you're going
to do the same different reasons and
examples in paragraph two and three and
in the conclusion you're going to say
that smoking is a bad idea what people
do is they contradict themselves they
will start off and say smoking is a
really bad idea but then in paragraph
one they'll say yeah sometimes smoking
is actually pretty fun to do with your
friends and you know what the evidence
may not be there but smoking is really
bit and there's contradictions
throughout the essay you need to be very
mindful that when you choose a position
whether you're going to agree or
disagree for example that you absolutely
stick with it now you've gotten what I
did in my last essay yeah this is
interesting because this is not usually
what I'm like in life in life I like
nuance and I like finding is sort of the
pros and the cons and weighing up the I
sort of agree but I sort of disagree and
this is how I find my way through life
being centered I hope but when you're
writing an IELTS they're saying don't be
centered you've got to be okay how can I
say this
it's got to be ideological you've got to
choose a side and totally argue for that
side and disregard all the other side of
it okay unless it asks you to discuss
both views of course it's asking you to
discuss both views that's a very
different thing but even if it asks you
to discuss both views there's still a
position there we are very clear on this
view and you're very clear on this view
right maybe it will also ask you for
your opinion in which in the conclusion
you'll be very clear about which of
those views that you agree with okay the
idea here is that throughout your essay
you don't contradict yourself your
paragraphs are very clear and their
ideas
and the position is well clear as well
let's just say okay I want you to read
this paragraph think about how clear it
is whether it answers the questions and
give it a score from 0 to 9 for task
achievement think about the clarity of
the paragraph the position is the
position clear
so I I should kind of tricked you this
is relating to that first question about
the factors that contribute to job
satisfaction okay so let's think about
this
sorry we're answering this question here
does this paragraph have a clear
position here is it very clear have I
written about the factors that
contribute to job satisfaction there are
a plethora of elements that contribute
to job satisfaction although it is very
complicated to ascertain what these
aspects are it is clear that they exist
consulting companies for instance can
measure job satisfaction using various
surveys after all it is one of the most
important okay that damp down down down
there's absolutely no clear position or
not necessarily an opinion but I just
have not answered that question again it
isn't I'm just right off track here I've
written it beautifully in terms of
grammar and vocabulary but I haven't
answered the question again okay try
this one again I'm talking about this
question here has this paragraph
answered this question I'll give you a
minute to read it I want you to score it
from 0 to 9 for task achievement
you
okay what did you score this from zero
to nine well let's read it so what
factors contribute to job satisfaction
the most important aspect of job
satisfaction is purpose this relates to
how much an employee feels that what
they are doing is meaningful and has a
positive impact on the world
for example doctors have a great sense
of purpose because they save the lives
of their patients having a meaningful
job is clearly the most important
feature for overall enjoyment okay
interesting what factors the most
important aspect hmm I think the IELTS
examiner's would give this a 6 why it's
asking for factors more than one not one
plural and in my paragraph how many have
I talked about I've talked about one
purpose so I'm going to achieve a six
probably for this it's not too bad but
it's again the positions not clear I
haven't answered the question it's a
little bit off-topic try this one on for
size write this from 0 to 9
you
just forget that second question by the
way
okay so what factors more than one
contribute to job satisfaction
well my paragraph says there are two
main contributors to having a satisfying
job mainly namely having a sense of
purpose and autonomy having a purpose
means that you are doing something that
you feel and believe has meaning for
example many teachers derive enjoyment
from their jobs because they are
educating students the other main factor
is autonomy people like to be in control
of their jobs and to not be bossed
around it is quite clear that being a
manager rather than a subordinate leads
to more enjoyment these two factors are
the most important this my friends is
very clear the positions clear its
answered the question
this would push you up from that dreaded
6 or 7 up to the eighth or I don't know
if 9 exists to be perfectly honest but
there you have it again read the
question understand the question answer
the question I know that's a crazy thing
but again as I said I've taken these
tests four times now and anxiety does
very strange things to the human mind
and it can make it very difficult to
concentrate you really need to do on
test day is stay calm relaxed focus on
what you're reading okay despite all of
the butterflies and the stomach and the
sweaty hands and then whatever's going
through your physical body focus on
reading that question and think I'd
better do what Jay said about answering
this bloody question because if I don't
I'm gonna be in trouble and get six
again okay all right so we just looked
at how to make your position or opinion
clear there and my position was very
clear I focused on two main aspects and
I just spelled it out okay third key for
task achievement is to use the e2
language introduction the e2 language
paragraph structures in conclusion
structures let's just look at the essay
structure overall if you haven't seen
the wonderful videos that we have
on YouTube do check them out it will
take you through this sentence by
sentence when we're writing an
introduction let's focus on this first
you start with a background statement
about the topic okay you want to write
something about job satisfaction for
example okay then you rewrite the
question prompt in your own words and
you I can't remember exactly what it was
but you know job satisfaction is very
important you've rewrite that prompt in
your own words right then this is the
most critical sentence maybe of your
entire essay this sentence here tells
the reader what you're going to tell
them so this is they will discuss if
you're discussing both views if it's an
opinion essay this essay will argue if
it's a double question essay this essay
will explain why job satisfaction is so
important or sorry
- this essay will explain what
constitutes job satisfaction this
answers the question this one here right
let's just skip the paragraphs for a
second we'll go down to the conclusion
again I suggest writing a background
statement broad neutral on job
satisfaction
don't go off-topic don't start writing
about your favorite job or whatever just
it's about job satisfaction and then
this essay discussed or argued or
explained okay it answered the first
question and it answered the second
question and maybe you put your opinion
in here now what do you do with the
opinion okay some questions specifically
ask you for your opinion and some don't
for example there's a question type that
says discuss both views and there's a
question type that says discuss both
views and tell me which one you think is
best
so this one is devoid of an opinion and
this one specifically asks you for your
opinion what do you do well I've spoken
to an IELTS examiner and I said I helps
examiner what happens if somebody puts
their opinion and it hasn't asked for
their opinion and he said
it's not a big deal you're allowed to do
that it's fine so you'll see in some of
the videos I've done where I've said
explicitly don't give your opinion
because I haven't asked for it and then
others I've said no it's actually it's
alright it is actually fine but it's not
the emphasis it's not the position it's
not the the purpose of your essay if it
just says discuss both views discuss
both views and maybe pop your opinion in
the conclusion if it says discuss both
views and give your opinion then discuss
both views and in those paragraphs also
give your opinion in some way by saying
while some people bla bla bla bla bla
personally I think this and ducted it
did a thread your opinion throughout the
whole thing whereas if it doesn't you
can just pop your opinion in the
conclusion at the end that's cool all
right so that's the conclusion if you're
unclear there's heaps of videos on
YouTube let's just quickly recap the
paragraphs structures because this
relates to task achievement because one
of the things they ask you to do is to
give relevant and extended answers about
the topic write relevant an extended
don't go off track and in by extended
they mean they want reasons and want
explanations they want some evidence
like an example ok let me show you how
to do that in the paragraph structures
so if you're familiar with the e to
language structures there are two
paragraphs that you might need on test
day and you do need to learn both of
these because some questions require the
double idea paragraph and some questions
require the single idea paragraph let's
focus on the single idea paragraph first
so that's where you have your opening
sentence where you outline the main idea
for example let's do the smoking is bad
I'll give you a very simple one it just
says smoking cigarettes is a terrible
idea
what's your reason well it affects your
physical body what's your evidence well
many people contract a lung cancer as a
result of smoking so what's your point
again well smoking is a terrible idea
that's a single idea paragraph I'm just
talking about my smoking is a terrible
idea
that's the main single idea and I
extrapolate I build upon that main idea
by giving a reason explaining it and
then giving some evidence like an
example right that's pretty simple
you need to practice these paragraph
structures by the way because it's one
thing to sit here and watch this video
lesson I think I up cool got a test
tomorrow easy right one out will help
you to forge it into your brain now
there's a second type of paragraph
called the double idea paragraph because
what do you do if the question says
discuss the advantages well what do you
do if the question says what factors
okay or what do you do if the question
says what are the problems associated
you need two ideas in the one paragraph
so for example your opening sentence
will say that there are two main reasons
why smoking is a terrible idea
what's your first idea or explanation
well smoking is a terribly bad for your
physical health what's your evidence
well it gives you lung cancer what's
your second idea what's the second
reason that it's that it's terrible well
it makes you makes your teeth yellow
what's your evidence well the dentists
have many patients with yellow teeth
what's your closing well smoking is a
terrible idea because it's bad for your
physical health and makes your teeth
yellow just try and do that just you can
go back and pause this video and think
of something like you think about why
smoking is good and try and just say to
yourself do that because that's also
what you want to do on test day and a
big part of getting a high score in task
achievement what we're talking about
basically answering the question prompt
is thinking of what you're going to
write before you write it one of the big
problems people make problems they make
or have rather is they just start
writing their essay without really
thinking about what they're going to
write or what paragraph they're going to
use this can be a split-second decision
you make you look at that question
prompt
you give yourself a minute you think
okay that's gonna need a double idea
paragraph because it's asking about
factors and that second question there's
just ask okay that's a single idea
paragraph so I'm going to do a double
and a single okay fine what are the two
ideas for my double what factors of job
satisfaction well you know big a big
wage for example because that's job
satisfaction and and meaningfulness okay
I've got my two and whatever and then
you can start to write you need to do a
thought experiment before you start to
write writing without thinking will lead
you to a six ok we're nearly there we've
just looked at how to use the e2
language introduction paragraph and
conclusion structures the final key for
task achievement is that you need to
write more than two and that's a
spelling error from my behalf
more than 250 words apparently 23
percent of candidates that's two out of
ten that's one out of five one out of
five candidates lose marks because they
don't write 250 words or more okay so
the difference is and what we're going
to learn when we get to the grammar
section in let's just say well a couple
of weeks it'll take me to get there but
pay attention you can watch this one on
YouTube I'm going to show you how to
extend your sentences because this is
another absolute key and this is a
reason why I got stuck on 7.5 I like
short sentences I write in short
sentences I speak in short sentences but
in the IELTS you need to write long
sentences so we're going to talk about
that in grammar and that will contribute
to your word count increase but have a
look here if you write an introduction
of 40 words and your two paragraphs of
70 and a conclusion of 40 you will hit
220 words and you will lose I don't know
exactly but let's just say it's
significant maybe an entire bear score
maybe more if you extend the length of
your sentences and you write some
complex sentences which I'll show you
how to do if you come along to the next
lesson and you extend it out to 50 80 80
and 50 well you've hit above 250 and
that's all you need to do to maximize
your score there you just need to write
more than 250 words
this may mean counting your words on
test day which is time-consuming but
pretty important okay the other thing
that this reminds me of is practicing
writing an essay or a series of essays
if not heaps of essays before test day
and having some feedback from e to
language comm on getting your essays
from et language calm but paying
attention to work out and seeing what
that looks like on the page in front of
you last thing for word count is a lot
of people write below the word count
because they've on test day you get one
sheet of paper right and you fill it up
one side and you fill up the second side
and you think ah okay I've completed
that that must mean that I've written
over 250 words alas this happened to me
in my first IELTS this is why I got a
7.5 the first time around I wrote about
220 words because my handwriting is big
and messy and I needed to put up my
hands and ask for another sheet of paper
so just be mindful and don't be shy put
your hand up and ask for a second sheet
of paper if you are under the word count
and you need to write an additional
paragraph for example cool bananas next
week what are we going to do next week
well we're gonna look at top tips for
this criterion which is coherence and
cohesion this is all about structure
it's all about internal structures of
paragraphs so not just the basic outline
of your essay and how the paragraph
sentences fit together but how do you
how do you connect those sentences
together beautifully so it flows from
one to the next so there are top tips
that I want to show you next week so be
sure to tune in then and yes
the week after vocabulary the week after
that grammar please share these videos
with your friends if they're taking the
IELTS because these are the kind of
things that everybody needs to know
and these are the reasons why people get
stuck at 6.5 and 7
okay what else have I got for you that's
all go and check out the website you can
sign up for free you can check out all
of our lessons methods lessons overview
lessons
heaps of practice material live classes
every Monday to Friday feedback on your
writing and speaking
one-on-one tutorials lots and lots of
stuff for you to do there I'll stick
around for a few minutes to answer any
questions you may have
you